All right, so now you've learned that you can do more with the Dot collect method than just to collect
items from a stream into a collection like a set or a list.
You can also call additional methods like counting and things of that sort.
So in this lesson, the primary thing I want to focus on for right now is the next scenario, which
is let's add up a bunch of numbers across all of the records that are in our very massive data file.
So let me show you what I have in mind here.
All right.
So turning to the spreadsheet here as I scroll through it horizontally, I think there is.
Yes, there it is.
There's a salary column here.
Let me make that a little bigger.
OK, so there's a column for salary and it looks like it has what I guess I would call integers.
There are, at least in this one example, there are no floating points.
I'm pretty sure there aren't any, by the way.
And so what I'm thinking is let's have our code go through all of these salaries for all five million
records and add them up to what will presumably be a really large number, right?
Let's have some fun.
This will give us an opportunity to do some, some more, slightly more real world processing, right?
Because we've got five million records, it's a lot of data to get through.
All right.
So there are a few things that we're going to need to consider here.
One other thing that I want to accomplish with this lesson is I want to shed more light on how to think
like a programmer.
I'm certain, unfortunately, that there will be some percentage of you who are taking this course who
may still not really understand, how do I know to do this step and then that step and then this step
and then that step, right?
So as much as I can, I'm going to try to explain to you what's going on in my head that informs me
to know that I need to do this, that or the other.
OK, now unfortunately, at some low, low level, you will have to just be able to connect dots on
your own when you're programming.
But I'll try to help you to understand the process going on in my mind as much as I can.
All right.
So first off, going back to the ADP, I think temporarily, let's pronounce some of that data again
and a little bit more of a raw form so that we can analyze it.
OK.
So I'm going to comment out these two lines, and maybe I'm going to comment that out as well.
And maybe I'll even put this on its own line so that I can comment that out and then.
We'll go back to let's see to limiting.
I don't know, let's get maybe 10 records and then let's do another 40 just like we did before system
died out print line.
OK, let's see.
So we're only going getting get 10.
Yeah, so let's run this because I just want to see the raw data, right?
Because here's the thing.
So let me tell you my thinking right now, what I have in mind is.
I know that there are five million rows with salary values in them, and I want the program to add these
rows up, right?
So my end goal is to get one number.
OK?
So I think it often helps in programming to think of what your problem is.
Think of the end goal first and then sort of kind of at least mentally or on paper, if it's overly
complicated.
Kind of start with that in goal and then work backward from there.
OK, so let's say that the end result should be a no.
Some really big number.
OK.
That's kind of like the the end goal, right?
So then the question becomes, how do I get that from whatever my starting thing is, right?
So let's look at the start.
All right.
So I ran this program, right?
And it spit out, what, 10, 10 records, right?
So what we're looking at here again is the raw form format of this data.
So just keeping in mind, these are strings that have commas separating each field, right?
And if I scroll through here a bit somewhere in here, there's probably something that, oh, there
it is.
Yeah, there's a field that relates to the salary.
Now I'm just kind of picking that up by right, by by my, by my own.
I right.
And so you know that, you know, we we grabbed a few records here and we pasted them.
In fact, you know what we could do.
We could go ahead and grab a few more.
It certainly won't hurt to do.
And paste a few more into this spreadsheet so that we have a little bit more data just to look at.
Now, mind you, what's happening here is as I just pasted this data, something actually kind of interesting
occurred and you need to be aware of this because we will have to do this programmatically.
OK, so the data that we have here is comma delimited, which means that each field of one line is separated
by commas delimited means separated by essentially.
OK.
And when I copy these lines of comedy limited data and paste them into Excel, Excel happens to be automatically
separating out the values by comma.
So excel, in this case, is smart enough to understand that I probably don't mean to paste one whole
entire line into one cell.
You know, it knows that I'm probably not trying to paste that into one cell.
It knows that probably it should separate all of the individual fields of one line, according to the
commas, and put them in their own in their own cells.
OK.
And so it's doing that for me automatically.
All right.
That's actually a hint as to probably something that we will need to do as programmers.
So anyway, looking for the salary filled again?
Here it is.
Right?
OK, so we've got this salary filled here.
So if we start with.
Lines that look like this, how do we eventually get to one big number?
Sorry, it's showing it in science or in engineering notation or whatever, but imagine that's one big
number, right?
How do we how do we go from these to this?
OK.
And I'm I apologize if I'm like kind of drawing this out.
I'm just trying to make sure that I'm covering the details for those of you who need it.
For those of you who maybe don't need this.
Feel free to skip ahead or maybe play it back at twice speed if you're not already.
I know I'm a slow talker, but but I want to just make sure that I'm not losing anyone unnecessarily,
so I would think that we'd want to be able to isolate out these values here, right?
Programmatically, excel just did it for us kind of automatically by virtue of the fact that we pasted
all of these values into the spreadsheet.
It has already isolated out this field and by field, I mean, this column, OK, column z or the salary
field?
OK.
It has isolated all the values of this, of this field for us.
So that's that's one cool thing right now.
Let us keep in mind that the nature of these lines of text here is such that programmatically, all
of this data is text or strings, right?
And fundamentally, we cannot do math on strings, so we should know I as a programmer, I'm again,
I'm telling you what's kind of going on in my head.
I, as a programmer, am aware that, OK, I'm going to want to separate out these values somehow so
that I can pinpoint just the salary field values, right?
So I know that I'm going to have to do that somehow.
And then another thing that I know is that when I separate out those values, they are probably going
to initially just be text.
And I know that I want to add up a bunch of numbers, but I can't add up text.
So that means I'm going to have to convert some text to numbers.
Now let me be really clear again and make sure you're with me.
And you know what I'm even talking about?
So let me find the salary data.
There it is, so there's salary data there and there, and probably here.
And I'm just eyeballing this right now, OK, so but if you weren't able to eyeball this easily and
sometimes you won't be able to.
Then again, it's very helpful to copy it and then and then paste it into a spreadsheet so that you
can get everything, separate it out and see what's going on a little more clearly that way.
OK, so let's just imagine that all of these values initially upon separating them out like we have
here, they're still going to just be text and not actual numbers.
OK.
Again, Excel is being pretty smart and hiding a lot of those details from us.
But in our code, these are going to initially be text because that's what we started off with.
OK.
How do I know that, by the way, just to be even more explicit and clear, I know that because that's
what comes out of the datelines method here.
If I hover over this, we can see that it returns a stream of strings, right?
So you can think of that as a stream of text.
That's what comes out of this.
So I know that fundamentally what I'm dealing with is text.
All right.
So I'm going to need to do some kind of conversion.
So all right now, I don't want to go any further.
Let me not go any further right now.
Let's just stop right here, and maybe we can actually write a little code, OK to kind of go through
this.
So the first step is I'm going to need to take.
Each of these lines of text and break them apart by fields into fields, according to the commas.
Now we've learned how to do that long ago in one of the previous modules.
You might be forgiven if you have forgotten about this, but here's where another aspect of being of
being an actual real world programmer comes up.
You're going to have to remember, not the details of how to do each and every little thing, but you
will have to be able to remember, generally speaking, what can be done right, like what kinds of
operations are possible.
I happen to remember that it is possible to take a string of text like we have here that has a recurring
pattern, such as these commas and split that string into a bunch of smaller strings wherever those
commas exist.
That's something that I just happen to remember in my case, because I've been programming so long.
I know that's a really common operation to need to be able to do.
So you're going to have to just remember, you know, what kinds of things are possible?
You don't necessarily have to remember what that method is called or how to do it.
But you need to be able to remember that there is some some kind of way that you can take a string and
split it.
OK.
If you can just remember that much, then you can always go to Google and Google.
How to split.
In fact, you know what?
I'm going to do that in front of you right now.
Let's pretend like I don't remember what the method is or anything like that because this is pretty
realistic.
And sometimes I do forget how to do even some of the techniques that I've taught in this course.
I don't always remember every detail of how to do them all.
OK, so here I've opened up a new web browser and I'm just going to search.
I'm going to say Java.
Set separate.
String.
By.
Commas.
And let's see Stack Overflow, so if you're not familiar.
Stack Overflow is probably the most famous, the most popular programmer website resource where people
just ask questions, How do I do this?
How do I do that?
Everybody goes the stack overflow.
So if that's the first thing that comes up in your search results, you might not want to skip over
it.
That's probably a good place to start to find answers, and it looks like someone asked, in fact,
how to split a comma separated string.
So that sounding pretty pretty, you know, like like what we want.
So if I click on that?
Let's see.
So someone says I have a string with an unknown length and looks something and looks something like
this dog comma cat come a bear, blah blah blah.
What would be the optimal way to divide this string at the commas so each word could become an element
of an array list?
OK, now they're getting a little ahead of themselves, in my opinion.
But but the basic question is the same thing that I think we're wanting to be able to do, right?
How do we split this at the commas, right?
And so if you come down here, usually the in the answers section here, the very first one is usually
the the most well accepted answer.
So let's see what they say here.
So basically, the dot split method will split the string according to, in this case, the limiter
you are passing and will return an array of strings.
So let's make note of that now.
It says that it will return an array of strings, and this might be familiar to those of you who remember
when I taught this.
But again, we're pretending like we don't know any of this, right?
So then the next thing you'd want to look out for is an example of where it's being utilized, and if
you blink, you might miss it.
So he's showing he or she is showing an example here.
Now they've convoluted it a tiny bit by mixing in a couple of things that the person who asked the question
wanted.
They wanted to know how to split it and then how to get it into an array list, right?
And so the and the person answering the question is showing that here he's showing that we have a string.
He's showing that here, by the way, right?
He's saying, OK, let's pretend like you've got a string.
So if you're not real comfortable with programming, you might have missed this because you may have
been looking for something that looked more like the original question.
In the example?
OK, now that I don't know that I can really help you with other than to say, well, you know that
they're asking about a string.
And so the person answering the question is showing a snippet of code.
And so you want to really make sure you're paying attention to what's in that snippet of code.
So here he's creating a variable of type string.
Now here he's skipping over the details because he doesn't care.
Right?
He's saying, Let's say you have a string, right?
And then down here he's saying now, the guy who asked the question said ultimately, they want to go
from a string with comma separated values to a list of strings, right?
So here's the list of strings.
Here he is saying like, I'm going to create a list from I'm going to create a list from this erase
class here.
For our purposes, we can mostly skip over this part, but here's where he's referring to that string.
And here he's calling the dot split method, and he's saying split on the commas.
Now, hopefully this is enough to trigger.
Oh yeah, I remember when Terry taught, you know, something about splitting text or strings, using
the split method and passing in the character that you want to use to split on.
So sorry, if I'm again, I'm sorry if I'm being overly long winded here, I just want to really be
explicit for those of you who really need this help.
So the key here is to use the split method of the string class now, now that we've learned that if
we jump back over here, now we know what what we can do, we can call split on each of these strings
and the split method is going to return an array of strings.
How do I know that?
Well, I know that because I happen to actually know it.
But also it was mentioned down here.
Basically, the split method will split the string, according to, in this case, the limiter you are
passing and we'll return an array of strings.
OK, so now that we know that, what can we do with that here?
Well, let's see.
So currently we're skipping and we're limiting, and we're so maybe what we can do is after we do this
limit, maybe let's put a new line here.
And so we're we're going to our R.
So our streams API pipeline is going to receive each of these lines one at a time.
Or at least you can think of it.
Is that right?
And so we're going to want to convert one of these whole entire lines, maybe into an array of strings
where each element of the array contains each field.
Right?
And so going back over here to excel, you can really think of each row as being an array.
OK?
You could actually in fact, you could think of the entire dataset as a two dimensional array, but
that's not what we're going to do here.
We're going to stick to just simple one dimensional arrays, right?
So each row could be thought of as one array and then each element in the array is each cell.
OK.
And that enables us to be able to separate out the values and then access in the individual parts of
the array very easily using an index.
Right?
OK.
So so let's try that.
So when we want to convert from one data type to another data type using the streams API, how can we
do that?
Do you remember?
OK, so to convert from one day to type to another in the streams API, we use the dot map method.
Right?
That's what that does.
It maps one data type to another data type.
So we'll we'll do a dot map and then we need to pass in a function.
And a function is simply a an interface that defines one method on it.
And that method takes one input and returns one output.
OK.
So we can implement that with a lambda.
So what are the things that are going to be input into here where it's going to?
Well, it's going to be strings because that's what's coming out of the dot lines method.
It's it's spitting out a stream of strings, right?
And the method or the lambda expression that we're going to pass in here is going to be expecting to
receive one string at a time.
OK.
So a method that would that would take a string will refer to that as s and then that'll map to.
Now we want to call the split method of the string class.
So we know that is a string.
And so we can call S Dot.
S.
S Dot split.
There we go.
And then we can just.
Pass in a string of a comma, right?
Telling it a split on commas.
And so now what's going to come out of this is going to be a stream of string arrays.
OK.
So basically, you can just think string arrays.
And again, going back over to excel, just think of each of these lines now as being an array.
And we have many of them, right?
So that's so that's how you can think of it, right?
You're going to get back these separated out arrays, right?
Each row is an array.
OK.
It's going to be its own array.
All right, so we're getting.
We're getting a stream of arrays coming out of here.
And now what would we want to do?
Well, again, let's take a look at the spreadsheet.
So ultimately, we want to get at these values here.
So how can we do that now?
So let's imagine if we've got one array.
With values that look like this and we're trying to get just the salary, how can we do that programmatically?
So for that, you need to know how to access individual elements of an array, right?
And so again, if you didn't remember how to do that, you could always google it.
I don't think I want to go quite that far down the rabbit hole of Googling, but you could if you didn't
remember how to access an element of an array right now.
One thing to note when you do remember how to access the elements of an array, you're going to realize
that to do so, you have to pass in an index number, right?
So with arrays, each element of the array has an index number starting with zero.
So this first element here or this first field or whatever you want to call it, would be index zero
and then one and then two and then three and then four and so on, right?
So we need to know beforehand what is the index of the salary column?
And one nice, easy way to do that without having to explicitly count.
If you do have a spreadsheet program like Excel is that you could just select a few examples of the
numbers here that I have here.
And then you can click on that little that little green square there and the cursor turns into a black
plus sign or cross sign, and then you can drag that to the left and excel auto number, according to
the pattern that we've already established there.
So I'm just going to keep dragging this to the end.
Like so.
And Bam, it just auto numbered all of the rest of those cells or columns for us.
And so now if I go back and find the salary column, I can see that the salary column is going to be
indexed.
Twenty five.
OK, so I need to remember that.
So now if I go back over here to the code.
What I want to do now is to convert each array of strings into just one value, and that one value will
be just the salary value for that array.
Right.
So I just want the one value I don't care about the whole entire array.
Now there are actually multiple ways that I could do this, but I think maybe for now, it's best that
I just show you the very explicit steps broken out in line by line so that it's easier to follow.
OK.
So I want to convert.
That's the key word there.
I want to convert from a string array to just one string, which is the salary value itself, right?
So because I'm wanting to convert, I can just do another mapping, right?
So I could just do another line and do map again.
Now, this time I'm going to take as an input, a string array and is showing me that here now that
I've started up and another the next step in the pipeline, right?
So the output or so what's going to come into here is going to be a string array.
OK.
So I'm going to use another lambda here, and I'm going to refer to my input as air for array.
Again, you know, we can call these things anything, but I would advise you to name them something
that's meaningful in your head.
All right.
And then the Arrow operator.
And so what I'm dealing with here is an actual array.
So the way to access one element of an array is to refer to the array and then use a square bracket
and then an index, right?
So in this case, my index is twenty five and now I'm actually accessing the salary field of one array.
Which is to say, if I go back over here, I'm accessing one value this value here or whatever value,
right?
Just one of them, though from.
One row.
OK, so again, one row in the spreadsheet is equivalent to one array.
All right.
One cell in one row is equivalent to one element of an array.
And I am wanting index 25 of each array.
OK, which will give me the salary.
All right.
Now, the next thing for me to note is the fact that, as I said earlier, each of these values in our
program at this step will be taxed and we can't do math on text.
We will need to convert these values into numbers.
Right now.
I'm going to just tell you just this is just my own intuition as a programmer, knowing that there are
five million records that we are about to add.
I think probably the best data type to use in this case might actually be a long versus an integer.
I think it's possible that each of the individual salaries may be fine being represented as integers.
But when we add them all up, we're going to need a data type, a numerical data type that is wide enough
to support a really potentially large number.
And so I'm thinking, maybe we just start with a long now.
That's just my intuition.
I could be wrong.
Maybe an integer would be big enough, but I'm pretty sure it won't be.
All right.
So keeping that in mind?
I want to now convert this string.
To a number, and like I just said, probably a long, by the way, if there were if there were decimal
points in here, then I'd want to use a double and I could use a double even now.
But I'm thinking long might be sufficient.
All right.
So again, it looks like I'm doing another conversion, I'll be converting from a string to a long so
I could come down here and do another map and maybe I will use SSL for salary.
And so now I want to convert that string into a long.
Now this should be easy, right?
Do you remember how to do this?
You can actually just use the static methods on the wrapper class of the numerical type that we're talking
about.
So since we're wanting to convert this into lungs, then we can use the wrapper class of lung, which
has a bunch of convenience methods on it, a bunch of static methods on it, one of which is pass lung.
And it takes as an input, a string.
And that's what we have here, salary.
And then it spits out a a primitive long.
Right?
So pass long.
Fell.
Oh, OK.
And I forgot to close my my parentheses on the line up above.
There we go.
OK.
So now we're mapping the string salaries to.
A numerical salary.
Right?
And now finally, I think we might be just about ready to do some additions now.
So at this point, let's get back to using the collect method so that I can show you how to do that.
So I'm going to delete this for each and let's uncomment this line.
All right.
So now, instead of counting, we don't want to do that.
We want to do well.
Let's just see here.
So I'm putting my cursor after this period and I'm going to do a controlled space.
And I think we want to do exactly what this method right here says, summing long.
So that looks and sounds like it should enable us to add a stream of lungs.
Right now, it takes an input of a function, though, and this function should be something that takes
an input and spits out a lung.
OK, now how do I know that?
Well, we can actually go, look at this, this interface to lung function.
So if I do a command of two lung function, every we go, I can open this guy up and I see here that
the one and only method that's in it takes a generic data type, which means it could be just about
anything as an input, but spits out a long.
And that's a hint.
Now, as a programmer, that's got me thinking of a few other things that I'm going to explain in just
a moment here.
All right, so I need to pass in a method or a lambda expression that will take an input of just about
any type, it looks like, but spit out a long.
Now the interesting thing here is I already have lungs, right?
So let me show you one thing that I could do here.
I just need.
So since I already have lungs, I don't really need to do any conversions, right?
But I do have to pass in a method still that will spit out a lung for whatever is input.
So one thing I could conceivably do is write a lambda that just read that takes an input and then just
returns that same input, right?
So I could do something like salary maps to salary that that would that would suffice right there,
though it does seem a little weird to me because it's not bringing any value at all, right?
It's just like a pass through method.
Take this number and then spit back out that same number again, just so that I can satisfy the the
the input for this summing long method here.
Now, another thing that I could do that just came to mind, since this method is allowing me to pass
in any data type at all.
What I'm sort of thinking here is, well, maybe what I'm doing on this mapping here could actually
just be done down here, right?
And so in other words, this something long method here, in addition to adding up all of the all of
the values, it's actually allowing us to potentially do a conversion right here, right?
So I could conceivably just grab all of this, in fact.
I guess what I could conceivably do is just grab this entire lambda right here and use that.
As the input here.
And now I don't need.
Line 20.
Right, yeah, and I don't have any errors, right, so it looks like it's perfectly fine with me doing
that.
Does that make sense?
I just saw, you know, like we had that one method that wasn't doing anything other than just passing
back out what it took in as input.
So there was no point to that, right?
Other than to just satisfy the signature of the summing long method itself.
So we just did a minor consolidation there.
OK, so now that we've got that, I think we can go ahead and capture the results of it.
So.
So let me uncomment Line 14.
And then join these lines back up.
Like so and so now we're capturing the output of this and one of the thing to note now the Dot collect
method to return type is highly dynamic.
It's based on the return type of the internal collector.
So since this something long is ultimately working to essentially return along.
Basically, that's essentially what you're going to get out of this collector out of this collect method
in this case.
Right?
All right.
So we're capturing that result and then I can uncomment this and let's go ahead and run it and see if
anything blows up.
Oh, now one thing now I'm limiting currently to 10, so I don't want to do that limiting anymore.
Let's just this.
Just go to town on this guy and get it all added up and see what kind of crazy number we get.
All right, now, you won't be aware of this because I'm going to edit out long pauses and things,
but that actually took a little while to run.
I don't know.
I wasn't really counting, but it was probably somewhere around 10 seconds, maybe even 15 seconds for
that to to do its thing.
So that's something to be aware of just in terms of, yeah, when you're doing this kind of processing
on millions of records, it's going to take a little bit of time, but we've got a number now.
We could format this and make it look prettier.
Do you remember how to do that?
And if you don't, you could Google for it, right?
Java format?
No money, right?
You could do something like that.
Now the way I'm going to do this right now so that I don't have to do too much is I'm going to format
it using print F. Right.
The format version of the print method here.
So if we do a print f.
You may recall that we can format data inside of print f itself.
Now again, you may not remember how to do this.
And again, that would be something that you might need to Google.
So in this case, you might Google print format money, right?
And that would give you almost certainly what you're looking for.
So I'm thinking we'll have a dollar sign and let's see, then we're going to need a percent sign here.
Now, normally when we're printing out numbers in most of our demo programs that we've been doing,
I usually am doing a percent D, which stands for a decimal integer.
So we can we can try that out and see if that's all right.
So now I also want commas.
I want comma separated groupings that we use in at least in American big numbers or maybe English.
Maybe the English speaking world.
I don't know.
I know, maybe in parts of Europe, sometimes they use spaces rather than commas, right?
At any rate.
I can supply a formatting flag, which will tell print f that I want to group up my numbers in the way
that is standard in my region, which is the U.S. in Europe, it would do the right thing there as well.
So I'm going to give it a comma here.
All right.
And then I also just want to go ahead and maybe put some decimal places in.
There are a couple of zeros.
OK, now I'm just hard coding those.
Those are not part of the format string.
Once I put this d here, I'm done with the format, string bits and everything else is going to be interpreted
literally.
All right, so let's run this and see if that will show up nicer.
All right, we've got a giant number here, and it looks like five hundred ninety nine billion nine
hundred sixty two million four hundred seventy three thousand six hundred sixty eight.
That's a that's a pretty substantial number.
Right.
So that was adding up all of the salaries of everybody in that spreadsheet.
Now for grins, I'm actually a little bit curious about something here.
This is kind of extra bonus in this lesson.
I'm curious to track how long this is taking scientifically and then maybe compared this approach to
to this to the other approach where we won't use the collect method.
So to do that, what I have in mind is to track the time right before we start processing the file and
then the time right when we're done and then subtract those two numbers and find out how much time has
elapsed, essentially.
And one way that I can think to do that offhand would be to call System Dot.
Let me see what is it current?
There it is, current time in Melies, so that returns a long.
So I can capture that and I'm going to call this start time and then I can just do that again, right
when we're done like right down here.
So let's see.
System current time in Melies again capture that.
Oops.
Capture that.
And call it end time like that, and then maybe I'll just throw in one more system that out where I
will print out in time minus start time.
And this is in milliseconds, which are thousandth of a second or meaning that there are 1000 milliseconds
and one second.
OK.
All right.
So let me run that again, and let's see how long this is taking.
We got something printed out.
However, it printed out badly because I forgot to put a new line character after the the two zeros
there.
So the part that we care about is 25.
Wow.
That took 25 seconds, twenty five thousand one hundred eighty one.
So twenty five seconds, that's pretty long.
All right.
So let's fix a couple of things here.
First off, let's make sure that we're putting a new line character after we print out the result so
that the the next bit there will be on a on its own line on a new line.
Right?
That's one thing.
And so that's taking twenty five seconds.
Now, if I run this a few times, we're going to see some variations in that.
But that's taking so long that I'm pretty sure we're not going to see like a huge difference.
It might go down as low as perhaps twenty three twenty two seconds sometimes that it might take as long
as twenty six, twenty seven in others, I'm guessing.
So I don't want to run that again because I don't want to waste the time.
But let's just see for grins now.
If we did this in a different way, I'm going to comment out.
Let me see, where do I want to start here?
I'm going to comment about the dot collect there, and let's do this the other way.
So we could map this to a long by just calling the map to long method here, which will output a long
stream.
OK.
And one of the benefits of the long stream is that inside of that stream, it will hold primitive numbers
rather than wrapper classes.
Because I suspect one thing that might be happening to cause this to take so long is that there might
be some boxing going on in in the in the current pipeline here.
So let's just see.
Let's see.
So let's see.
We'll do a map too long and this is going to take a two long function again so we can actually just
copy this.
And pass it right in like so.
And now what we can do is because this map to long method returns a long stream, the long stream,
which is a numerical stream, it will have a lot of common mathematical functions built right into it
that are designed to work really efficiently, right?
And so if I do a period here, let's see.
There we go.
We've got a sum right there.
OK, so let's see how this one functions, so I'm going to run that now.
OK.
Wow, that still took like twenty six seconds.
Right?
So I don't know, speed up.
And in fact, technically it took a little bit longer this time.
OK, so before we wrap this up, I want to show you one more thing.
I just want to touch on it.
And honestly, this again is just kind of my own personal curiosity.
I want to show you that what we could do to potentially try speeding this up a bit more is to actually
turn it into what is called a parallel stream.
If I put a period here and then I referred to the keyword parallel.
Now I'm not going to explain a whole lot about this, but basically what this is going to do is it's
going to enable our our streams pipeline to be capable of being processed by multiple cores processing
cores of our computer in parallel.
So basically, what it's going to attempt to do is depending on how many processor cores we have available
to us, Java will will manage all of this for us magically, but it will determine how many parallel
streams of processing might make sense to handle this task based on the resources on the computer.
And then it will attempt to take our, in this case, five million rows or five million records and
split them into groups, according to however many parallel processes.
Java determines might make sense to do.
So let's say that Java decides to split our five million into two groups of 2.5 million each.
Then the idea is that now you have these two groups being processed simultaneously.
OK.
So I don't want to say too much more about it right now, but let's just see what happens.
Sometimes you can get some really profound speed ups simply by doing this and sometimes not.
With five million records taking twenty five to twenty six seconds, though, we might get something
noticeably better with this approach.
So let's just see here.
So and notice, all I had to do was just put the word parallel on there.
I can't tell you how awesome this is, but anyway, let's go ahead and run it and see.
Oh, wow, look at that.
We went from twenty five and twenty six seconds down to ten seconds.
Right.
I'm going to run that a couple more times because also one thing that you'll notice sometimes is that
when you run the same thing a few times, the JVM has an opportunity to optimize.
So let's just see if it will get any faster.
OK, ten seconds again and maybe one more time.
OK, that time 11 seconds, so.
So, yeah, we're around 10 seconds on average, and that's a huge savings, isn't it?
I mean, it cut it down by more than half.
So this is a nice little example of when you're using the Streams API with massive amounts of data,
you know, hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, depending on what the operations are that you're
doing.
You could really see some huge benefits by making use of parallel streams or parallel parallel processing.
And now this isn't really meant to be a lesson on parallel processing in and of itself.
But hey, by just putting one little keyword on here, we were able to cut the processing time by more
than half.
So a nice little lesson for you to to see real quick here.
And I know this lesson was really, really long because I took extra time to go into more detail than
I have been lately, but I just wanted to make sure that I'm not passing up too many people who are
just not understanding like, how do I know to do these steps, right?
So hopefully those of you who may have been having those problems got a little more clarity here.
I may not go into that level of detail every single time going forward, but every once in a while,
I'll try to remember to do that.
OK, so we learned some cool things here, and I will see you in the next one.